Abstract
Precise geospatial vegetation forecasting holds potential
across diverse sectors, including agriculture, forestry, hu-
manitarian aid, and carbon accounting. To leverage the
vast availability of satellite imagery for this task, various
works have applied deep neural networks for predicting
multispectral images in photorealistic quality.
However,
the important area of vegetation dynamics has not been
thoroughly explored. Our study introduces GreenEarthNet,
the first dataset specifically designed for high-resolution
vegetation forecasting, and Contextformer, a novel deep
learning approach for predicting vegetation greenness from
Sentinel 2 satellite images with fine resolution across Eu-
rope. Our multi-modal transformer model Contextformer
leverages spatial context through a vision backbone and
predicts the temporal dynamics on local context patches
incorporating meteorological time series in a parameter-
efficient manner.
The GreenEarthNet dataset features a
learned cloud mask and an appropriate evaluation scheme
for vegetation modeling.
It also maintains compatibil-
ity with the existing satellite imagery forecasting dataset
EarthNet2021, enabling cross-dataset model comparisons.
Our extensive qualitative and quantitative analyses reveal
that our methods outperform a broad range of baseline
techniques. This includes surpassing previous state-of-the-
art models on EarthNet2021, as well as adapted models
from time series forecasting and video prediction. To the
best of our knowledge, this work presents the first mod-
els for continental-scale vegetation modeling at fine reso-
lution able to capture anomalies beyond the seasonal cycle,
thereby paving the way for predicting vegetation health and
behaviour in response to climate variability and extremes.
We provide open source code and pre-trained weights to re-
produce our experimental results under https://gith
ub.com/vitusbenson/greenearthnet [10].
Past Satellite Data
Meteorology
Elevation
Future Vegetation State
■ Training       ■ OOD-t Test       ■ OOD-st Test
Multi-modal deep learning:
global pyramid vision transformer encoder
+ patchwise meteo-guided temporal transformer
+ delta prediction scheme
Model
Inputs
Contextformer
Outputs
Figure 1. GreenEarthNet approach (map shows sample locations).
1. Introduction
Optical satellite images have been proven useful for mon-
itoring vegetation status. This is essential for a variety of
applications in agricultural planning, forestry advisory, hu-
manitarian assistance or carbon monitoring.
In all these
cases, prognostic information is relevant: Farmers want to
know how their farmland may react to a given weather sce-
nario [83]. Humanitarian organisations need to understand
the localized impact of droughts on pastoral communities
for mitigation of famine with anticipatory action [49]. Af-
forestation efforts need to consider how their forests react
to future climate [71]. However, providing such prognostic
information through fine resolution vegetation forecasts is
challenging due to ecological memory effects [35], spatial
interactions and the influence of weather variations. Deep
neural networks can model relationships in space, time or
across modalities. Hence, their application to vegetation
forecasting given a sufficiently large dataset seems natural.
1
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
27788
Abstract
Astronaut photography, spanning six decades of human
spaceflight, presents a unique Earth observations dataset
with immense value for both scientific research and disaster
response. Despite their significance, accurately localizing
the geographical extent of these images, which is crucial
for effective utilization, poses substantial challenges. Cur-
rent, manual localization efforts are time-consuming, mo-
tivating the need for automated solutions. We propose a
novel approach – leveraging image retrieval – to address
this challenge efficiently. We introduce innovative training
techniques which contribute to the development of a high-
performance model, EarthLoc. We develop six evaluation
datasets and perform a comprehensive benchmark compar-
ing EarthLoc to existing methods, showcasing its superior
efficiency and accuracy.
Our approach marks a signifi-
cant advancement in automating the localization of astro-
naut photography, which will help bridge a critical gap in
Earth observations data. Code and datasets are available
at https://github.com/gmberton/EarthLoc.
1. Introduction
Astronaut photography of Earth is a unique remote sensing
dataset that spans 60 years of human spaceflight, offering a
rare perspective on our planet to the public and valuable
data to Earth and atmospheric science researchers.
This
dataset contains over 4.5 million images and is growing by
the tens of thousands per month, as astronauts are contin-
ually tasked with taking new photographs that enable sci-
entific research as well as assist in natural disaster response
efforts in the wake of events like floods and wildfires. To ef-
fectively use these images, the geographical area depicted in
them needs to be identified. Unfortunately, this task - Astro-
naut Photography Localization (APL) - is very challenging.
For each photo, only a coarse estimate of location is known,
given by the point on Earth directly under the International
Space Station (ISS) at the time the photo is taken. This
point – called the nadir – can be easily computed using the
image’s timestamp and the ISS’s orbit path. However, two
Figure 1. Overview of the astronaut photography localization
task. Astronauts take hundreds of photos a day from the Interna-
tional Space Station (ISS) cupola (top-left) with hand-held cam-
eras. For each image (example bottom right), the geographic lo-
cation depicted is not known, and needs to be searched for across
a huge area centered at the ISS’s (known) nadir point at the mo-
ment that the photo is taken. A simulated view of the astronaut’s
perspective when the ISS is above Europe is shown. The goal of
our paper is to automate the task of localizing these images, which
could be anywhere within the view. In the figure’s example, the
photo the astronaut took is indicated by the green line and shown
in inset – other possible photo extents are in red, illustrating the
wide array of potential locations to search.
images taken with the same nadir can be thousands of kilo-
meters apart, as even a slight inclination of the astronaut’s
hand-held camera can move the image’s location hundreds
of kilometers in any direction, as depicted in Fig. 1. Lo-
calization must thus be performed over a wide area, and is
additionally complicated by (i) astronauts using hand-held
cameras and a variety of zoom lenses, (ii) the large, 2500
kilometer (km) visibility range in all directions, (iii) most
photographs being oblique, and (iv) the Earth’s appearance
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
12754
Abstract
We describe a novel method, StyLitGAN, for relighting
and resurfacing images in the absence of labeled data. StyL-
itGAN generates images with realistic lighting effects, includ-
ing cast shadows, soft shadows, inter-reflections, and glossy
effects, without the need for paired or CGI data. StyLit-
GAN uses an intrinsic image method to decompose an image,
followed by a search of the latent space of a pretrained Style-
GAN to identify a set of directions. By prompting the model
to fix one component (e.g., albedo) and vary another (e.g.,
shading), we generate relighted images by adding the identi-
fied directions to the latent style codes. Quantitative metrics
of change in albedo and lighting diversity allow us to choose
effective directions using a forward selection process. Qual-
itative evaluation confirms the effectiveness of our method.
1. Introduction
Scene appearance shifts dramatically with varying lighting
conditions - a sunlit room takes on a different character as
daylight fades, and interior spaces transform with the flick of
a switch. Similarly, surface changes, like a wall’s paint color,
change not only the wall’s appearance but also the overall
image due to light reflection. Despite the impressive realism
achieved by current generative models like StyleGAN [22–
24], they fall short in dynamically controlling scene lighting,
a key aspect of realistic image generation.
In this work, we present StyLitGAN, a novel approach
that extends the editing capabilities of StyleGAN [38, 45,
46, 53]. StyLitGAN uniquely manipulates style codes to
selectively change lighting while preserving other image
attributes like albedo and geometry. This selective editing
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
4231
Abstract
Object detection in radar imagery with neural networks
shows great potential for improving autonomous driving.
However, obtaining annotated datasets from real radar im-
ages, crucial for training these networks, is challenging,
especially in scenarios with long-range detection and ad-
verse weather and lighting conditions where radar perfor-
mance excels. To address this challenge, we present Rad-
SimReal, an innovative physical radar simulation capable
of generating synthetic radar images with accompanying
annotations for various radar types and environmental con-
ditions, all without the need for real data collection. Re-
markably, our findings demonstrate that training object de-
tection models on RadSimReal data and subsequently eval-
uating them on real-world data produce performance lev-
els comparable to models trained and tested on real data
from the same dataset, and even achieves better perfor-
mance when testing across different real datasets.
Rad-
SimReal offers advantages over other physical radar sim-
ulations that it does not necessitate knowledge of the radar
design details, which are often not disclosed by radar sup-
pliers, and has faster run-time. This innovative tool has the
potential to advance the development of computer vision al-
gorithms for radar-based autonomous driving applications.
Our GitHub: https://yuvalhg.github.io/RadSimReal.
1. Introduction
Automotive radar plays an important role in autonomous
driving systems, offering long-range object detection ca-
pabilities and robustness against challenging weather and
lighting conditions. The radar emits radio frequency (RF)
signals and, through the processing of reflected echoes from
the surrounding environment, creates a radar reflection in-
tensity image [6]. The image contains reflection intensities
*Both authors contributed equally to this work.
Both authors are with General Motors, Yuval Haitman is also with the
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering in Ben Gurion University
of the Negev.
-30
0  
30 
90 
Azimuth [deg]
10
15
20
25
30
35
Range [m]
-53
-37
-24
-12
0  
12 
24 
37 
53 
90 
Azimuth [deg]
10
15
20
25
30
35
Range [m]
Image 
Simulation
Radar Image 
Simulation
Radar Image 
RadDet
Image 
RadDet
-30
0  
30 
90 
Azimuth [deg]
5
10
15
20
Range [m]
-53
-37
-24
-12
0  
12 
24 
37 
53 
90 
Azimuth [deg]
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
Range [m]
(c)
(d)
(a)
(b)
Figure 1. Comparison between synthetic and real radar images
from four different scenarios. Each scenario shows the camera
image and the corresponding radar image. (a) and (b) simulation
scenarios. (c) and (d) real scenarios.
corresponding to range and angle coordinates, providing a
visual representation of the scene. Afterwards, computer vi-
sion algorithms are employed to identify objects within this
visual image.
Numerous Deep Neural Network (DNN) methods have
emerged for detecting objects in radar images [11, 22, 25,
30, 44, 45]. These techniques involve training the DNN
using annotated real data. Several datasets containing real
annotated radar images have been introduced [27–29, 36,
40, 44]. These datasets vary in terms of the radar type and
environmental conditions. However, the primary challenge
with object detection DNNs trained on real data lies in the
considerable effort required to collect and annotate the data.
This challenge is particularly hard in the case of radar since
it is used to detect objects at long range, adverse weather
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
15407
Abstract
Recent advancements in large vision-language models
enabled visual object detection in open-vocabulary scenar-
ios, where object classes are defined in free-text formats
during inference. In this paper, we aim to probe the state-
of-the-art methods for open-vocabulary object detection to
determine to what extent they understand fine-grained prop-
erties of objects and their parts.
To this end, we intro-
duce an evaluation protocol based on dynamic vocabulary
generation to test whether models detect, discern, and as-
sign the correct fine-grained description to objects in the
presence of hard-negative classes.
We contribute with a
benchmark suite of increasing difficulty and probing dif-
ferent properties like color, pattern, and material. We fur-
ther enhance our investigation by evaluating several state-
of-the-art open-vocabulary object detectors using the pro-
posed protocol and find that most existing solutions, which
shine in standard open-vocabulary benchmarks, struggle to
accurately capture and distinguish finer object details. We
conclude the paper by highlighting the limitations of current
methodologies and exploring promising research directions
to overcome the discovered drawbacks. Data and code are
available at https://lorebianchi98.github.io/FG-OVD/ .
1. Introduction
Open-vocabulary object detection (OVD) consists of recog-
nizing objects not present at training time, therefore solving
the limitations imposed by traditional detectors that could
only recognize a fixed pool of object classes. In the last
years, open-vocabulary detectors have captured large re-
search attention thanks to their wide flexibility in many
potential downstream applications like autonomous driv-
ing [20], extended reality [19], and robotics [9, 10, 16].
The core idea behind open-vocabulary detectors is to es-
tablish a semantic connection between object regions and
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
22520
Abstract
Learning compatible representations enables the inter-
changeable use of semantic features as models are updated
over time. This is particularly relevant in search and re-
trieval systems where it is crucial to avoid reprocessing of
the gallery images with the updated model. While recent
research has shown promising empirical evidence, there
is still a lack of comprehensive theoretical understanding
about learning compatible representations. In this paper, we
demonstrate that the stationary representations learned by
the d-Simplex fixed classifier optimally approximate compat-
ibility representation according to the two inequality con-
straints of its formal definition. This not only establishes a
solid foundation for future works in this line of research but
also presents implications that can be exploited in practical
learning scenarios. An exemplary application is the now-
standard practice of downloading and fine-tuning new pre-
trained models. Specifically, we show the strengths and criti-
cal issues of stationary representations in the case in which
a model undergoing sequential fine-tuning is asynchronously
replaced by downloading a better-performing model pre-
trained elsewhere. Such a representation enables seamless
delivery of retrieval service (i.e., no reprocessing of gallery
images) and offers improved performance without opera-
tional disruptions during model replacement. Code available
at: https://github.com/miccunifi/iamcl2r.
1. Introduction
By learning powerful internal feature representations from
data, Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) [1–4] have made
tremendous progress in some of the most challenging
search tasks such as face recognition [5–9], person re-
identification [10–12], image retrieval [13–15] and this sig-
nificance also extends to a variety of other data modalities
[16, 17]. Although all of the works mentioned above have
focused on learning feature representations from static and,
𝜙𝑇
 
task 2
task 𝑇
task 1
𝜙2
 
𝜙1
 
Stationary 
Representation
(⟹ Compatible)
𝜙 
Figure 1. Improved Asynchronous Model Compatible Lifelong
Learning Representation (IAM-CL2R pronounced “I am clear”). In
the process of lifelong learning, a model is sequentially fine-tuned
and asynchronously replaced with improved third-party models
that are pre-trained externally. Stationary representations ensure
seamless retrieval services and better performance, without the
need to reprocess gallery images.
more recently, dynamic datasets [18–21], the now-standard
practice is downloading and fine-tuning representations from
models pre-trained elsewhere [22, 23]. These “third-party”
pre-trained models often incorporate new data, utilize alter-
native architectures, adopt different loss functions or more
in general provide novel methodologies. Whether applied
individually or combined, these advancements aim to en-
capsulate the field’s rapid progress within a single unified
model [24]. This greatly facilitates the exploitation of in-
ternally learned semantic representations, particularly as
models, datasets, and computational infrastructure continue
to expand in size, complexity, and cost [25, 26].
The challenge of fully exploiting such standard practice
in retrieval/search systems has to deal with the underlying
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
28793
Abstract
Significant progress has been made in scene text detec-
tion models since the rise of deep learning, but scene text
layout analysis, which aims to group detected text instances
as paragraphs, has not kept pace. Previous works either
treated text detection and grouping using separate mod-
els, or train a model from scratch while using a unified
one. All of them have not yet made full use of the already
well-trained text detectors and easily obtainable detection
datasets. In this paper, we present Text Grouping Adapter
(TGA), a module that can enable the utilization of various
pre-trained text detectors to learn layout analysis, allowing
us to adopt a well-trained text detector right off the shelf
or just fine-tune it efficiently. Designed to be compatible
with various text detector architectures, TGA takes detected
text regions and image features as universal inputs to as-
semble text instance features. To capture broader contex-
tual information for layout analysis, we propose to predict
text group masks from text instance features by one-to-many
assignment. Our comprehensive experiments demonstrate
that, even with frozen pre-trained models, incorporating our
TGA into various pre-trained text detectors and text spotters
can achieve superior layout analysis performance, simul-
taneously inheriting generalized text detection ability from
pre-training. In the case of full parameter fine-tuning, we
can further improve layout analysis performance.
1. Introduction
With the rise of deep learning, text detection [17, 18, 22,
44], text recognition [3, 8, 16, 34], and end-to-end text spot-
ting [19, 20, 38, 39] models have greatly improved the accu-
racy and efficiency of identifying text instances like words
*Work done during the internship at Microsoft Research Asia.
‡Corresponding authors.
(a)
Backbone
Layout
Branch
🔥
Detection
Branch
text
regions
affinity 
matrix
learnable query
(b)
Image
text 
regions
affinity
matrix
🔥
Text Grouping
Adapter
group 
masks
Backbone
Detection
Branch
Text Detection
layout
Layout Analysis
image
image
layout
Text Detector
Figure 1. Top: Visualization of the scene text detection and layout
analysis tasks. The mask with the same color denotes detected as a
group. Bottom: Comparison between (a) the previous work Uni-
fied Detector [23] and (b) proposed TGA. TGA also provides the
flexibility of freezing or fine-tuning the pre-trained text detector.
or text lines. To fully understand the text semantics in vari-
ous applications [1, 2, 30, 41, 45], it is essential to determine
how to organize these text instances into coherent semantic
entities, e.g., determining which detected words constitute a
line and which detected lines form a paragraph. This prob-
lem, as visualized in the top of Figure 1, named scene text
layout analysis [23], has not been advanced at the same pace
as other scene text understanding tasks.
Previous layout analysis works [13, 29, 46] adopt sep-
arate semantic segmentation models to localize different
high-level entities in scanned and digital document images,
which only focus on limited scenarios instead of general-
scope natural scenes and ignore low-level text instances like
words and text lines. Recent design on a Unified Detec-
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
28150
Abstract
The increasing use of transformer-based large lan-
guage models brings forward the challenge of processing
long sequences.
In document visual question answering
(DocVQA), leading methods focus on the single-page set-
ting, while documents can span hundreds of pages.
We
present GRAM, a method that seamlessly extends pre-
trained single-page models to the multi-page setting, with-
out requiring computationally-heavy pretraining.
To do
so, we leverage a single-page encoder for local page-level
understanding, and enhance it with document-level desig-
nated layers and learnable tokens, facilitating the flow of
information across pages for global reasoning. To enforce
our model to utilize the newly introduced document tokens,
we propose a tailored bias adaptation method.
For ad-
ditional computational savings during decoding, we intro-
duce an optional compression stage using our compression-
transformer(C-Former ),reducing the encoded sequence
length, thereby allowing a tradeoff between quality and
latency.
Extensive experiments showcase GRAM’s state-
of-the-art performance on the benchmarks for multi-page
DocVQA, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach.
1. Introduction
Document understanding, particularly in the context of
DocVQA, has gained substantial research interest [5, 6,
16, 25, 36, 37] and offers a wide array of practical appli-
cations, focusing on data extraction and analysis of sin-
gle page documents. However, Multi-Page DocVQA (MP-
DocVQA) poses a more realistic challenge, considering that
the majority of documents, including contracts, manuals
*Work conducted during an internship at Amazon.
†Corresponding author: alongolt@amazon.com
‡Corresponding author: litmanr@amazon.com
+
How many 
diagrams
are there?
Multi Page Encoder 
Global-Local Encoder Block
Page Sub-Layer
Doc Sub-Layer 
Page Sub-Layer
Doc Sub-Layer 
C-Former
Page 
Attention
Doc 
Attention
Compression Transformer
Decoder
Figure 1. An Overview of GRAM. We suggest an interleaved en-
coder architecture combining page- with document-attention lay-
ers, allowing information to propagate between different pages.
An optional compression transformer (C-former) is introduced to
allow a trade-off between quality and latency.
and scientific papers, often extend well beyond a single
page. Despite the practical relevance of MPDocVQA, it
has received limited attention, primarily due to the absence
of suitable datasets. Two recently introduced datasets, MP-
DocVQA [33] and DUDE [18], have opened up new av-
enues for MP-DocVQA research.
Recent DocVQA approaches rely on transformers [35],
at the heart of their architecture. While transformers are a
powerful tool, they face challenges when dealing with long
input sequences [4, 7, 10–12, 27, 38]. This difficulty stems
from the self-attention mechanism, which scales quadrati-
cally in terms of computation and memory, with respect to
the input sequence length. Addressing this limitation has
attracted significant research efforts, primarily in the field
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
15598
Abstract
Knowledge of lane topology is a core problem in au-
tonomous driving. Aerial imagery can provide high res-
olution, quickly updatable lane source data but detecting
lanes from such data has so far been an expensive man-
ual process or, where automated solutions exist, undriv-
able and requiring of downstream processing.
We pro-
pose a method for large-scale lane topology extraction from
aerial imagery while ensuring that the resulting lanes are
realistic and drivable by introducing a novel B´ezier Graph
shared parameterisation of B´ezier curves. We develop a
transformer-based model to predict these B´ezier Graphs
from input aerial images, demonstrating competitive results
on the UrbanLaneGraph dataset. We demonstrate that our
method generates realistic lane graphs which require both
minimal input, and minimal downstream processing. We
make our code publicly available at https://github.
com/driskai/BGFormer
1. Introduction
Autonomous Vehicles (AVs) require knowledge of their sur-
roundings to operate. So far, all systems not reliant on a
safety driver have required pre-built High Deﬁnition maps
(HD maps). HD maps can deliver a strong prior about the
road and lane topology, e.g. so the AV can navigate amid
occlusions. But creation of HD maps is time-consuming
and expensive, typically requiring a ﬂeet of road vehicles
equipped with LiDAR and cameras followed by extensive
manual curation and human annotation [18].
One of the core components of an HD map is precise
lane geometry and topology data. Previous works have at-
For the purpose of open access, the author has applied a Creative Com-
mons Attribution (CC BY) license to any Author Accepted Manuscript
version arising. This work was funded by the Centre for Connected and
Autonomous Vehicles, delivered by Innovate UK, part of UK Research
and Innovation.
Figure 1. Our trained model detecting a lane B´ezier Graph on an
intersection. B´ezier endpoints P 0,3 shown in cyan, control points
P 1,2 in white, resulting curves in red.
tempted to automate the generation of this data from on-
board sensors [4, 5, 10] or - recently - from aerial imagery
[3, 9, 30, 31]. Generating lane-level data from aerial im-
agery is of particular interest since this can be efﬁciently
obtained at large scale using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
(UAVs) or satellites. In this way, AVs could be equipped
with regularly updated HD maps that cover a large area.
However, these approaches are not without their chal-
lenges. Lane geometry and topology is typically predicted
in the form of a lane graph: a graph in which nodes repre-
sent a discrete sampling of lane centre lines, with edges rep-
resenting connectivity. Existing methods typically predict
the position of each node in 2D space, but this frequently
results in noisy, non-physical lane centre lines requiring ex-
tensive downstream processing and human oversight.
We improve on these methods by introducing a shared
parameterisation of cubic B´ezier curves in a graph struc-
ture that we refer to as a B´ezier Graph.
By associating
B´ezier direction vectors with nodes, we enforce a strong
prior that lane direction should be continuous at boundaries.
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
15365
Abstract
Image keypoint descriptions that are discriminative and
matchable over large changes in viewpoint are vital for 3D
reconstruction. However, descriptions output by learned
descriptors are typically not robust to camera rotation.
While they can be made more robust by, e.g., data aug-
mentation, this degrades performance on upright images.
Another approach is test-time augmentation, which incurs
a significant increase in runtime. Instead, we learn a lin-
ear transform in description space that encodes rotations
of the input image. We call this linear transform a steerer
since it allows us to transform the descriptions as if the im-
age was rotated. From representation theory, we know all
possible steerers for the rotation group. Steerers can be
optimized (A) given a fixed descriptor, (B) jointly with a de-
scriptor or (C) we can optimize a descriptor given a fixed
steerer. We perform experiments in these three settings and
obtain state-of-the-art results on the rotation invariant im-
age matching benchmarks AIMS and Roto-360. We publish
code and model weights at this https url.
1. Introduction
Discriminative local descriptions are vital for multiple 3D
vision tasks, and learned descriptors have recently been
shown to outperform traditional handcrafted local fea-
tures [17, 19, 23, 43].
One major weakness of learned
descriptors compared to handcrafted features such as
SIFT [35] is the relative lack of robustness to non-upright
images [55]. While images taken from ground level can
sometimes be made upright by aligning with gravity as the
canonical orientation, this is not always possible. For exam-
ple, descriptors robust to rotation are vital in space applica-
tions [49], as well as medical applications [42], where no
such canonical orientation exists. Even when a canonical
orientation exists, it may be difficult or impossible to esti-
mate. Rotation invariant matching is thus a key challenge.
The most straightforward manner to get rotation invari-
ant matching is to train or design a descriptor to be rotation
invariant [17, 35]. However, this sacrifices distinctiveness
in matching images with small relative rotations [41]. An
alternative approach is to train a rotation-sensitive descrip-
tor and perform test-time-augmentation, selecting the pair
that produces the most matches. The obvious downside of
TTA is computational cost. For example, testing all 45◦ro-
tations requires running the model eight times.
In this paper, we present an approach that maintains dis-
tinctiveness for small rotations and allows for rotation in-
variant matching when we have images with large rota-
tions. We do this while adding only negligible additional
runtime, running the descriptor only a single time.
The
main idea is to learn a linear transform in description space
that corresponds to a rotation of the input image; see Fig-
ure 2. We call this linear transform a steerer as it allows
us to modify keypoint descriptions as if they were describ-
ing rotated images—we can steer the descriptions without
having to rerun the descriptor network. We show empiri-
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
4885
